In the quiz, you used a subjective
approach to determine the best control
unit for Store 111.
However, we would like
to use a systematic and
mathematical way to make
the decision without any guessing.
There are many different algorithms for
finding matched pairs, with different
levels of computational complexity.
Generally speaking,
these algorithms take
all of the numeric control variables and
calculate a single value that determines
how far the treatment unit
is from each control unit.
This is referred to as a distance score.
Alteryx is a tool that calculates
the distance score for
control units using a KD tree.
Basically, this algorithm calculates
distance across various dimensions and
then matches one to ten control
units to each treatment unit.
We'll demonstrate the use of
the AB Controls tool later.
But for now,
let's take a look at the results
we'd see if we did this in Alteryx.
Store 5035 has a closer statistical
distance than does store 3498.
In fact, mathematically,
store 3498 does not make the top ten
stores because there are other stores
with five products that
are relatively close in sales.
Therefore, the algorithm weighted the
product count higher than the sales and
use of the algorithm would've changed
the outcome of the previous quiz.